(1). Explain types of API with examples.

Public API - 
Public APIs are published publicaly and that can be used by anyone(any third party user).

 characteristics - 
 1. publicaly available without any access restriction.
 2. Used to communicate beyond the boundries of the company.
 3. No need to necessarily have a business relationship with them.
 
 example - Social media boats, third party login e-commerce transactions and weather apps.
 
 
 Private API - 
 Private APIs are developed by own company to enhance the own products and services.
 
 Characteristics - 
 1. Less common.
 2. Exposed only to the internal systems.
 3. Used across internal development teams within the company.
 
 example - One example of Private API is Home-Cost, a home building cost calculator.
 
 
 Partner API - 
 Partner APIs are used by specific partners with whom the company agrees to share data.
 
 Characteristics -
 1. Are exposed to selected business partners.
 Used for communication between a company and it's business partners.
 
 example - Airbnb Partner API, eBay APIs, Skyscanner travel API
 
 
 
 (2) Why we need API 
 
 1. The rate of code development is faster and the same API can service more requests without any major code
 or infrastructural changes.
 
 2. It helps you to embed contents from any site or application more efficiently.
 
 3. APIs has much more strong discipline for security and governances.
 
 4.APIs are more standardized, they can be monitored and managed for both performance and scale.
 
 5. Simple,flexible, quickly adopted.
 
 examples - 
  APIs are used to deliver material by streaming services such as Spotify and Netflix.
  
  APIs are used by automakers such as tesla to provide software upgrades.
  
  
  (3) - Explain types of web services 
  
  SOAP web service 
  1. SOAP stands for Simple Object Access Protocol.
  2. A format for sending and receiving messages.
  3. SOAP is platform independent.
  4. Originally developed by Microsoft.
  5. The best way to communicate between application is over HTTP.
  6. SOAP provides a way to communicate between applicatiopn running on different operating systems, with
  different technologies and programming languages.
  
  REST web service 
  1. REST stands for REpresentational State Transfer.
  2. Relies on stateless communication protocol most commonly,HTTP.
  3. REST structures data in XML,YAML, or any other format that is machine-readable.
  4. Usually JSON is the most widely used format.
  
  
  (4) What is API endpoint and give 2 sample API endpoints
  An API endpoint is a digital location where an API receives requests about a specific resource on it's server.
  In APIs, an endpoint is  typically a uniform resource locator(URL) that provides the location of a server on
   on the server.
   
   
   
   (5) 
   
   1. 500 Internal server error
   
   example - you are trying to purchase an item online , but when you click "Checkout", you see 
   a message saying "500 Internal server Error.This could happen if server hosting the e-commerce 
   site experiences an unexpected error due to a misconfiguration or an issue with the payment
   processing system.
   
   
   2. 501 Not Implemented
   
   example - Suppose a client tries to make a request using a method not supported by the server, such as using 
   'PATCH' instead of 'POST' to update data. The server responds with a 501 status code because it does not 
   support 'PATCH'.
   
   3. 502 Bad Gateway
   
   example - You are using an app that relies on multiple services(i.e a weather app pulling
   data from various APIs). If one of those services is down or sends an invalid response,
   the app might show a '502 Bad Gateway' error.
   
   4. 503 Service Unavailable
   
   example - During a flash sale, a popular e-commerce site may experience a surge in traffic,
   overwhelming the servers. Users trying to access the site might encountering a '503 Service Unavailable'
    error.
    
    
    5. 504 Gateway Timeout
    
    example - If you are trying to load a webpage that relies on a slow or unresponsive API,
    the server might time out waiting for the API response and return a '504 Gateway Timeout' error.
    
    
    6. 505 HTTP Version Not Supported
    
    example - A legacy client sends a request using an outdated HTTP protocol version(e.g, HTTP/1.0) to a modern 
    server that only supports HTTP/1 HTTp/2. The server would respond with a '505 HTTP Version
     Not Supported' error.
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
